---
title: Reboot
published: true
---
This blog is going through a bit of transition, though it may not be apparent on the surface.

## Becoming Powerful With Technology
My mission is to help people know themselves as powerful and capable of making a real difference in their world. And technology is how I want to do that. What that means for you, dear reader, is that the direction of content here will be changing somewhat.

Going forward, most of my writing is going to be focused on teaching technology, how to think about it, and how to wield it powerfully. Expect much more technical content coming. There will be code. There will be diagrams. There will be words and concepts you are not familiar with. And I invite you to come along for the ride, because we're going to learn a hell of a lot and have some fun.

When I say "becoming powerful with technology", I really mean in two ways:

1. If you're a technologist or want to be one, understanding technology (and how to use it) more deeply. Understanding fundamentals gives you power to recombine and create new things in new contexts.
2. Looking at the world from the point of view of someone who can affect it, who has a say in it.

I think this was captured best by the eminently quotable man himself, Steve Jobs, in this 1995 interview during his time away from Apple building NeXT:

> When you grow up you, tend to get told that the world is the way it is and your life is just to live your life inside the world, try not to bash into the walls too much, try to have a nice family, have fun, save a little money. That’s a very limited life.
>
> Life can be much broader, once you discover one simple fact, and that is that everything around you that you call life was made up by people that were no smarter than you. And you can change it, you can influence it, you can build your own things that other people can use. Once you learn that, you’ll never be the same again.
>
> \- Steve Jobs, 1995

And here it is from the man himself on video:

<div class="flex-video text-center">
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kYfNvmF0Bqw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Hopefully you're starting to get a sense of what I mean. We'll be exploring how to look at the world in this way, and also how to practically think about, work on, and create things. To give you a more concrete idea, here are the next two posts that will be coming.

<a name="morelink"></a>

## 1) Internet Fundamentals
First on the list is an exploration of how messages flow across the Internet between computers at a low level (update: [this is published here](/network-fundamentals-how-messages-flow-through-sockets/)). This will be an initial post in what will be an ongoing series understanding the systems that are all around us, that we use all the time and would be helpful to understand. I'm going to write about this because understanding it gives you powerful knowledge to create distributed systems.

<!-- more -->

As I shared before, my main goal is [to make distributed computing accessible for everyone to put to work](https://andrewskotzko.com/computing-the-battle-of-the-futures/). Hence my work on [Petabridge](https://petabridge.com) the [Akka.NET project](http://getakka.net). Well, guess what? It's tough to deal powerfully with distributed systems if you don't understand at least the basics of how messages flow across the network. So we're going to make sure we understand that.

## 2) What Does an Open-Source Project Need?
Second on the list is an exploration of what makes an open-source software (OSS) project successful. What does it need? How does it need to be organized?

OSS is one of the most powerful forces to emerge in technology over the last fifteen years. We're going to explore how OSS projects work and take a firsthand look inside a big open-source project. That's a viewpoint most people (even developers) never see, and I think it'll be enlightening.

It will also give you some insight into how we're organizing the Akka.NET project going forward. [Akka.NET](http://getakka.net) is growing rapidly in adoption, production usage, and in contributors-all great signs! But how is that happening? How did we get here, and how are we charting a course to where we're going now that we've got 40+ contributors involved?

## Come Along for the Ride
I won't be sending out all this more technically-focused material to my existing email list, because they didn't sign up for that. But if you are interested in coming along for the ride, please sign up using the email form below<span class="hidden"> (or [sign up here](http://eepurl.com/bttpY5), if you can't see that)</span>.

Onward!